Slimes & Stones - Harvest the surface for gel, wood and stone for early equipment (wooden armor, sword, bows, a bunch of arrows and torches).

Housing - Create a shelter at your spawn. Also, create few rooms around it, NPCs will like it.

First Caves - Find an opening and venture into the depth of caves:

  Mine some ores and gems - these will be usefull for making new tools, armors, and hooks. Remeber to smelt ores at furnance!

  Gather more [life crystals] - These items will raise your maximal HP when picked up. 5 of them should be enough for now, raising your HP to 200

  Look out for [Golden Chests] - These will have useful equipment like [Cloud in a Bottle] or [Magic Mirror], or maybe a weapon like [Enchanted Boomerang].

Exploring the Surface - With your newfound loot, you should be now able to travel around much faster and safer. This will allow you to venture to see how your whole map's surface looks:

  [Snow] areas aren't that much of a danger. If there's a cave in there, be sure to check them out. They can have Ice Chests in them, that are like Golden chests, but better!
  [Corruption] is easier to get trough than Crimson, but it is still hard. Try to build bridges over chasms and try to get trough them as fast as possible
  [Crimson] is harder than its counterpart, but there are still ways to do that. Try outrunning your enemies, not get locked beteewen rock and a enemies' punches, and you should be good.
  [Deserts] aren't much of a threat UNLESS there is a sandstorm going on. When that happens - retreat. You aren't able to move as fast and you may encounter fast and hard-hitting enemies. Also, if you see something like pyramid, be sure to loot it!
  If you find a [Dungeon], check out what's lying on its shelves near the surface. Be careful not to go too deep, something scary hides there.
  When you get to [Ocean], check if there isn't someone lying there, this could be NPC angler that can give you quests for cool fishing equipment.

Preparing your crafting station - With all your new loot you should upgrade your base a bit. Best thing to do is place a few chests close to each other and add crafting stations around them.
  Crafting stations you need are:
    [Furnance] (20 stone, 4 wood, 3 torches, at work bench) - Enables you to smelt Ores into Bars, which is required to craft tools with them.
    [work bench] (10 wood, anywhere) - Gives you many options for early-game crafting
    [Iron/Lead Anvil] (5 Iron/Lead, at work bench) - Allows you to craft tools and weapons from Bars

  Crafting stations that are also useful:
    [Bootle] (Made out of Glass (that is made out of sand)) - Just put it on a table or platform. This will allow you to craft potions
    [Saw] (10 Wood, 2 Iron/Lead bars, 1 Chain (that is made out of Iron/ Lead bars) on work bench - This station will allow you to craft many things out of wood that are helpful in creating new base
    [Loom] (12 Wood, at work bench) - this station will allow you to craft silk, that you can use to craft beds (that can change your spawn point) or Robes, that mages can use with gems to increase their capabilities.

Quick raid of an evil biome - Try grabbing few bombs, ropes and recall potions and dive into corrupted caves. When you get all the way down, blow up an Orb or two with your truty bombs, collect loot and recall out!

Collect [Meteorite] - After destroying orbs, there is a huge chance that meteorite has fallen on your world. Try mining it either with a good pickaxe (made of Tungsten/Gold/Plat) or just blow it up with bombs. This should allow you to craft [Space Gun] and a [Meteor set], that together are useful for a long time!

Prepare your first arena - Find somewhat flat space, prefferably in the pure biome, and build a few layers of platforms. Add a campfire here and there, and this should do for your first arena.

(Optional) - Fight [King Slime] - This tough, but also slow and not-so-smart miniboss can be fought for his loot. You can create spawner for boss by first crafting crown (1 Ruby and 5 Gold/Platinum Bars) and then taking it to the Demon Altar and mixing up with 20 Gel. Quick tips:
  Run all the time. King Slime is easily outrun, but he hits hard. Try to keep him at distance and wear him off over time.
  King Slime deals a lot of damage when he touches you. Avoid it at all cost.

Fight Eye of C'thulhu - When the night comes, take the most useful potion you found and crafted, your most powerful weapons, and use [suspicious looking eye] that you probably found in one of the chests. If not, it can be crafted. Seeing "You feel an evil pesence watching you.." means that the boss will come to you by himself. Quick tips:
  Stay mobile and dodge all the attacks
  Kill Servants of the C'thulhu, as they can be annoying when they stack up.
  when Eye's HP goes down enough, he transforms into a fiercer enemy, dashes in a quick succesion, but as a tradeoff, his armor is lowered to 0. Try to be as precise as possible and finish him off.
  This will allow another NPC to spawn - Dryad. She will sell nature-related items.

(Corruption)Fight Eater of Worlds - After your first boss, it's time to take another beast down. This long worm resides in caves of a Corruption biome and awakes when 3 Shadow Orbs are destroyed.
Quick tips:
  Blow up some of the underground cave and place platforms for a quick arena
  Beisdes head, most of the worm doesn't deal significant damage. As long as you dodge it, you should be fine
  For ragners, it is recommended to equip Jester's Arrows, as their piercing ability makes you able to hit all the segments at once

(Crimson)Fight Brain of C'thulhu - Deep inside caves of the Crimson, this terryfing monster resides. Break 3 Crimson Hearts to summon this beast. Quick tips:
  Make an arena with a few row of platforms inside the cave
  Jester's arrows are recommended for Rangers to take out Brain's minions in first stage
  After all the minions are dead, boss will try to rush at the player. Use weapon with high knockback to keep him at bay.
  After defeating either of those you now can craft Armor and Weapons from these bosses. Demonite Bars and Shadow Scales make for [Shadow Armor], that gives good deal of movespeed, that can be used even ny other classes. Crimtane Bards and Tissue Samples make for [Crimson Armor], that has great healing buff, useful for fighting bosses and exploring.

(Optional) Venture into jungle - Right now you're trong enough to explore the jungle. Be careful, enemies here are still strong.
  Collect [Vines], [Stingers] and [Jungle Spores] - These crafting ingredients are used to make jungle armor, weapons and tools
  Find [Jungle Shrines] and [Giant Mahogany Trees] - These structures have [Ivy chests] inside them, and are source for many jungle-exclusive items like [Feral Claws] for Meele users or [Boomstick for Rangers]
  Locate Beehives - These places full of honey are home to another Boss - Queen Bee. But we're not gonna fight her yet, there is another baddy waiting for us, near the duneon

(Optional) Explore Sky Islands - If you happened to find a gravitation potion or two in chests you just looted, try drinking one and fly up, maintaning high attitude. In Sky Islands, you can find few life-saving accesories and a decent sword, [Starfury]

Prepare Skeletron arena - Just place few rows of platforms near the enterance, add few campfires and if you have spare Life Crystal, Heart Lanterns [1 Life Crystal + 4 Chains].

Fight Skeletron - Guardian of the Dungeon can be fought only at the nighttime, by speaking to Old Man, NPC waiting for you near the dungeon gates. Quick tips:
take our hands to make fight much easier.
  Skeletron is vulnerable to Frostburn debuff. Getting Frostburn arrows is easy if you can get your hands on few ice blocks from Snow Biome and combine them with torches, then arrows.
  After you defeat Bonely boss, you're allowed to go into Dungeon, with many enemies and items awaiting you

Raid the dungeon - After freeing Old Man from his curse, it is time to go down the tunnels of the duneon and cause some mayhem:
  Scavenge all the Water Candles and Water Bolts - These items will be laying on the shelves of the Dungeon, and while the second on is just a weapon, the first one can be an issue, especially when going to the dungeon early on. These candles increase amount of monsters spawning, and can be used later on for farming monsters
  Open up all the Locked Golden Chests - Sometimes, enemies from Dungeon will drop a Golden key, which can be used to open up Golden Chests. They are source of many great weapons and two useful items, Cobalt Shield (Negates Knockback) and Shadow Key (Allows you to open Shadow Chests in Underworld)
  Try to find Mechanic, Bewitching Table and Alchemy table - Mechanic is NPC found in Dungeon, that allows you to buy wires and stuff related to them. Other two are useful furniture pieces, first allows you to summon more minions, and other makes your potion brewing more efficent.

(Optional) Beat Queen Bee - A Queen of Jungle Hives, residing inside them, is still unharmed. Time to change it. Quick tips:
  Prepare your arena just like you always do. Be careful to not hit the Larvae while doing so, because that will spawn a Queen Bee
  Use Bouncing Weapons, like Waterbolt or Meteor Bullets, closed spaces like hive are efficent when using them
  Getting Bezoar from jungle enemies helps quite a lot in this fight, as Queen Bee often inflicts Poison on you.
  After killing Queen Bee, summoners are getting their first armor - Bee Armor. This set allows them to summon three minions and increases their damage.

(Optional) Create Hellevator - Hellevator is a name for a vertical tunnel going all the way from surface to underworld. This method of movement helps a lot when you have to go up and to very often

Venture to the Underworld - All the way down, there is a massive biome full of lava, evil monster, and more lava. It is also the place where you can find strongest of the PreHardMode Bar - Hellstone. But mining it isn't as easy as others:

Mine out some Hellstone - By getting a Obsidian Skin Potion from one of the pots in Underworld's houses, you can safely dive into lava and mine [Hellstone Ore]. This can be combined later on with Obsidian (that you can get when lava meets water) to create [Hellstone Bars], that will be useful in crafting new equipment

Build a Hellbridge - This will be cruical in the fight with next boss - Wall of Flesh. Just make a 1-block thin bridge for at least half of the Hell's lenght, that should do it

Open up Shadow Chests - If you happened to find Shadow Key in the dungeon, then you can open Shadow Chests in the underworld, that have many powerful weapons inside them, great for facing upcoming challenges

(Optional) Prepare plant farm - Later on, in HardMode, it's gonna get harder. To help out with surviving it, it's best to prepare a potion farm. I'm not gonna write everything here, just google it. It is simple and helps out a lot!

(Optional) Fish for crates - Now that you're almost ready, you can boost your power early in hardmode by fishing up some crates. When opened in Hardmode, these crates will give you new HardMode ores and bars, that you'll be able to use to skip part of the grind

Kill Wall of Flesh - Your last challenge in PreHardMode, the Guardian of the Hardmode, Wall of Flesh, is here to take you on. Quick tips:
Try to get rid of Hungries, as they can deal significant damage later on
Hitting Eye is more efficent as it has less Defence.
Remeber to keep running, as Wall of Flesh accelerates as its health goes down.
If you've succeded, congratulations! Your world is now in HardMode. Everything now is trying to kill you even more!
